---
title: "Week #3"
---

# **Week #3**

## Implemented MVP features

*Describe all implemented features (with to relevant PRs/Issues for implemented features) in your MVP and functional user journey(s)*
The following features are developed for the MVP model:
- Short-term predictions via baseline model (<a href="https://github.com/IU-Capstone-Project-2025/Metalytics/pull/26">feature time series analysis performed and forecasting framework developed</a>).
- API to fetch predictions generated by the model from the server.
- Webpage previewing the functionality of the product with forecasting prices from the API calls.

## Demonstration of the working MVP

*Screenshots/GIFs/PDF presentation/Videos demonstrating the working MVP*

## ML

**Link to the training code**: <a href="https://github.com/IU-Capstone-Project-2025/Metalytics/blob/main/ml/forecasting_models.py">link</a>

The presented solution is a baseline considered to be compared with the further model, as well as to provide the initial machine learning part structure for the API development.

The model choice is based on the literature suggesting boosting models as the perspective solutions of the classical machine learning. To train this model, the american futures gold dataset was used, the justifications for this step are proposed in the following <a href="https://github.com/IU-Capstone-Project-2025/Metalytics/blob/main/ml/reports/market_research.pdf">report</a>. The dataset contains information about open, close, high, and low prices as well as volume of trade at hourly rate. Moreover, additional features are <a href="https://github.com/IU-Capstone-Project-2025/Metalytics/blob/main/ml/reports/indicators_research.pdf">proposed</a> to enchance quality of the results. Finally, the model takes into account a few lagged historical prices to make new predictions.

The forecasting process for the baseline model was set up as follows: the baseline forecasting models for key feature attributes (`High`, `Low`, and `Volume`) were selected to produce forecast for the next timestamp. Based on these forecasts, the indicators are computed, and the target baseline model predicts the output value. Then, this value is set as the past observation, and the next iteration happens. This <a href="https://github.com/IU-Capstone-Project-2025/Metalytics/blob/main/ml/forecasting_models.py">file</a> contains all baseline models codes for training and producing forecasts.

To facilitate this process by decoupling the behavior of each model from the main logic, the following <a href="https://github.com/IU-Capstone-Project-2025/Metalytics/blob/main/ml/forecasting_framework.py">framework</a> was developed.

**Links to the initial model artifacts**:

The baseline models were trained and dumped as files for further forecasts in the following <a href="https://github.com/IU-Capstone-Project-2025/Metalytics/tree/main/ml/baseline_model">folder</a>.

## Internal demo

*Notes from internal demo*

# Weekly commitments

## Individual contribution of each participant

- **Vladimir Toporkov** - ...
- **Farit Sharafutdinov** - ...
- **Ilya Grigorev** - designed baseline forecasting models for key features and updated baseline model with support of these features (<a href="https://github.com/IU-Capstone-Project-2025/Metalytics/pull/26/commits/7356fb94522938407f390e294bf50f84a15ded49">commit</a>) as well as developed a framework to facilitate creation and deployment of new forecasting models (<a href="https://github.com/IU-Capstone-Project-2025/Metalytics/pull/26/commits/b848e9bd2ea28e264edbba749210bda28a73ef40">commit</a>).
- **Rail Sharipov** - ...
- **Askar Kadyrgulov** - ...
- **Nikita Solomennikov** - ...

## Plan for Next Week

1. Enhance the LSTM model for further comparison.
2. Add hyperparameter tuning of the LSTM model.
3. Train and deploy the LSTM model.
4. Possibly, research and design dataset filter.

## Confirmation of the code's operability

We confirm that the code in the main branch:
- [ ] In working condition.
- [ ] Run via docker-compose (or another alternative described in the `README.md`).
